<a name="top" />

[**HOME**](Home) > [**SNOWPLOW SETUP GUIDE**](Setting-up-Snowplow) > [**Step 4: setting up alternative data stores**](Setting-up-alternative-data-stores) > [Kinesis-LZO-S3-Sink-Setup](Kinesis-LZO-S3-Sink-Setup)

This documentation is for version 0.1.0 upto 0.2.1 of Kinesis LZO S3

## Overview

The Kinesis LZO S3 Sink reads records from an [Amazon Kinesis][kinesis] stream, compresses them using [splittable LZO][splittable-lzo], and writes them to S3.

It was created to store the [Thrift][thrift] records generated by the [Scala Stream Collector][ssc] in S3.

If it fails to process a record, it will write that record to a second Kinesis stream along with an error message.

## Prerequisites

To run the Kinesis LZO Sink, you must have installed the native LZO binaries. To do this on Ubuntu, run:

```
$ sudo apt-get install lzop liblzo2-dev
```

## Installation

### Option 1: download the executable jar file

See [[Hosted assets]] for the zipfile to download.

### Option 2: compile from source

Alternatively, you can build it from the source files. To do so, you will need [scala][scala] and [sbt][sbt] installed. 

To do so, clone the Snowplow repo:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow.git
```

Navigate into the Kinesis Elasticsearch Sink folder:

```
$ cd 4-storage/kinesis-lzo-s3-sink
```

Use `sbt` to resolve dependencies, compile the source, and build an [assembled][assembly] fat JAR file with all dependencies.

```
$ sbt assembly
```

The `jar` file will be saved as `snowplow-lzo-s3-sink-0.1.0` in the `target/scala-2.10` subdirectory. It is now ready to be deployed.

## Configuration

The sink is configured using a HOCON file. These are the fields:

* aws/access-key and aws/secret-key: Change these to your AWS credentials. You can alternatively leave them as "default", in which case the [DefaultAWSCredentialsProviderChain][DefaultAWSCredentialsProviderChain] will be used.
* kinesis/in/stream-name: The name of the input Kinesis stream. This should be the stream to which your are writing records with the Scala Stream Collector.
* kinesis/in/initial-position: Where to start reading from the stream the first time the app is run. "TRIM_HORIZON" for as far back as possible, "LATEST" for as recent as possibly.
* kinesis/out/stream-name: The name of the output Kinesis stream, where records are sent if the compression process fails.
* kinesis/out/shards: If the out stream doesn't exist, create it with this many shards.
* kinesis/region: The Kinesis region name to use.
* kinesis/app-name: Unique identifier for the app which ensures that if it is stopped and restarted, it will restart at the correct location.
* s3/endpoint: The AWS endpoint for the S3 bucket
* s3/bucket: The name of the S3 bucket in which files are to be stored
* buffer/byte-limit: Whenever the total size of the buffered records exceeds this number, they will all be sent to S3.
, buffer/record-limit: Whenever the total number of buffered records exceeds this number, they will all be sent to S3.
* buffer/time-limit: If this length of time passes without the buffer being flushed, the buffer will be flushed.

An [example][conf-example] is available in the repo.

Note that setting the "bucket" field to a nested bucket (like "mybucket/myinnerbucket") may prevent the sink from working by throwing an exception:

```
com.amazonaws.services.s3.model.AmazonS3Exception: The bucket you are attempting to access must be addressed using the specified endpoint.
```

To get around this, include your bucket's S3 region in the endpoint field:

```
  s3 {
    endpoint: "http://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com" # Rather than "http://s3.amazonaws.com"
    bucket: "outer-bucket/inner-bucket"
  }
```

## Execution

The Kinesis LZO S3 Sink is an executable jarfile which should be runnable from any Unix-like shell environment. Simply provide the configuration file as a parameter:

```
$ ./kinesis-lzo-sink-0.1.0 --config my.conf
```

This will start the process of reading events from Kinesis, compressing them, and writing them to S3.

[ssc]: https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow/tree/master/2-collectors/scala-stream-collector
[thrift]: https://thrift.apache.org/
[kinesis]: http://aws.amazon.com/kinesis/
[s3]: http://aws.amazon.com/s3/
[splittable-lzo]: http://blog.cloudera.com/blog/2009/11/hadoop-at-twitter-part-1-splittable-lzo-compression/
[ske]: Scala-Kinesis-Enrich
[DefaultAWSCredentialsProviderChain]: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaSDK/latest/javadoc/com/amazonaws/auth/DefaultAWSCredentialsProviderChain.html
[conf-example]: https://github.com/snowplow/kinesis-s3/blob/0.2.1/src/main/resources/config.hocon.sample
