<a name="top" />

[**HOME**](Home) > [**SNOWPLOW SETUP GUIDE**](Setting-up-Snowplow) > [Step 3: Setting up Enrich](Setting-up-enrich) > [Configurable enrichments](Configurable-enrichments) > Currency conversion enrichment

### Compatibility

JSON Schema   [iglu:com.snowplowanalytics.snowplow/currency_conversion/jsonschema/1-0-0][schema]  
Compatibility 0.9.6+  
Data provider [Open Exchange Rates][openexchangerates]  

### Overview

This enrichment uses [Open Exchange Rates][openexchangerates] to convert the values of all transactions to a specified base currency. To use it, you need an Open Exchange Rates account.

### Example

```json
{
    "schema": "iglu:com.snowplowanalytics.snowplow/currency_conversion_config/jsonschema/1-0-0",
    "data": {
        "enabled": true,
        "vendor": "com.snowplowanalytics.snowplow",
        "name": "currency_conversion_config",
        "parameters": {
            "accountType": "developer",
            "apiKey": "{{API_KEY}}",
            "baseCurrency": "EUR",
            "rateAt": "EOD_PRIOR"
        }
    }
}
```

The fields are as follows:

* "accountType": The level of your Open Exchange Rates account. Must be "developer", "enterprise", or "unlimited".
* "apiKey": Your Open Exchange Rates API key.
* "baseCurrency": The currency to convert all transaction values to.
* "rateAt": Determines which exchange rate will be used. Currently only "EOD_PRIOR" is supported, meaning that the enrichment uses the exchange rate from the end of the previous day.

###Data sources

The *Currency conversion enrichment* serves as a complementary context to Ecommerce tracking, specifically the methods `addTrans` and `addItem`. Enabling the enrichment allows to acquire the prices/cost values related to the transaction in the `base_currency`.

The input values come from those generated by firing a transaction event (`e=tr`) followed by firing item events (`e=ti`). 

The table below summaries the input parameters used in the enrichment process.

Parameter | Parent event | Mapped to
:---|:---|:---
`tr_cu` | Transaction | `tr_currency`
`tr_tt` | Transaction | `tr_total`
`tr_tx` | Transaction | `tr_tax`
`tr_sh` | Transaction | `tr_shipping`
`ti_cu` | Transaction item | `ti_currency`
`ti_pr` | Transaction item | `ti_price`

###Algorithm

This enrichment uses 3rd party, [Open Exchange Rates][openexchangerates], service to get the prices in transaction currency converted to a predefined base currency.

In addition to the input parameters stated above the collector timestamp, `collector_tstamp`, obtained during common enrichment process is used as a base for `EOD_PRIOR`.

###Data generated

Below is the summary of the fields in `atomic.events` table driven by the result of this enrichment (no dedicated table).

Field | Purpose
:---|:---
`base_currency` | Base currency code according to [ISO_4217](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_4217#Active_codes)
`tr_total_base` | Total amount of transaction in base currency
`tr_tax_base` | Tax applied in base currency
`tr_shipping_base` | Shipping cost in base currency
`ti_price_base` | Item price in base currency

[schema]: http://iglucentral.com/schemas/com.snowplowanalytics.snowplow/currency_conversion/jsonschema/1-0-0
[openexchangerates]: https://openexchangerates.org/signup?r=snowplow
